Well, good morning everybody that
I haven't said good morning to this
morning and if I had said good morning
to you, sorry, I'm saying it again.
So I, uh, hope you guys have had a good
past week and if you haven't, good news.
Sunday's, a new day and a new week.
That's the one things I think
I have learned about Sunday's.
Um, is, uh, back whenever I first
gave my life to Christ, I told people
this like Sundays, I needed Sundays to
kind of reset my week, and then I, we
end up having Wednesday night church
back in the, you know, olden days.
Those of you who had Wednesday night
church go to church on Wednesdays.
That's crazy.
Um, but we went to church on Wednesdays
and I needed Wednesdays to get
me through the rest of the week.
So it was like, Sundays got me through
Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesdays got me
through Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and
Saturdays I just wing winged it, right?
Um, but.
I love Sundays.
Um, and I love the opportunity
to see you guys, um, and get the
opportunity to worship together
and to get into God's word.
Um, and, uh, I, I don't know about
you guys, but I need Sundays.
Anybody else like me, I, I need Sundays.
Um, and, and that's just a sign of
that probably what God has deeply
convicted me of is the need for
community, uh, to be around people who
I genuinely love and care for that.
Typically extend that back to me as
much as I extend to that to them.
And so, um, anyways, I'm gonna
quit Jabber on and, and move on.
So we have been in this series now,
this will be week five of our series
of Shalom, Shalom, um, and this idea of
God's perfect peace and how we receive
God's perfect peace in the midst of our
mental struggles and we've dealt with.
Things like anxiety and
depression and worry.
And today we get to think about,
um, uh, and talk about how we
overcome our negative thoughts.
Um, anybody in here ever
deal with negative thinking?
God, I'm not the only one.
There's some of you that are just
so positive and, uh, God bless you.
I'm glad that you are who you are.
Oh, okay.
There you go.
That's what you call it.
Um, so when we think about God's perfect
piece, I actually started thinking
about this as like, okay, we keep
talking about God's perfect piece.
What is God's perfect piece?
And it's the presence of God in the midst
of our lives, in just general, right?
But if we dive a little bit deeper, it's
knowing that God is with us in the midst
of some of our biggest struggles of life.
Because I would say this
is when life's going good.
We don't really necessarily
see our need for God.
We're like, okay, everything's great,
but it's really when we need God's
perfect pieces in the midst of chaos.
Um, and so it's really God's presence
in the midst of, of difficulty.
And so we're specifically diving in
to the idea of God's perfect peace
in the midst of our mental struggles.
And, uh, you would think, how is
negative thoughts, mental struggles?
And it, it absolutely is as we look at it,
is something that a lot of us deal with.
And today, if you don't.
Say, I'm not a negative person by the
end of the day, I'm hoping that maybe
you'll be convinced that maybe you are a
negative person, just not all the time.
Maybe it's in different areas, and we
can all work on that by God's obviously
direction, um, and conviction in that.
And so, uh, all I know is when I was
writing this message, I just, I was
really just encouraged by myself.
I think this is gonna be
the worst message ever.
I think you guys are gonna hate it.
And then it, then I started
writing and going, Hey, I'm doing
exactly what I'm not supposed to
be doing, which is being negative.
So hopefully it won't
be a negative message.
I don't know how it can't be.
So nobody is laughing with me.
You're all laughing inside.
I appreciate that.
Um, yes, thanks.
Thanks.
Thank you.
I appreciate that.
Um, so again, I don't, I,
I, I really don't know.
I mean, I obviously, I know there's a
group of people in here that may not
all be a lot like me when it comes
to thinking of life in this way.
You ever heard somebody say, you look
at life like it's a glass half empty.
Anybody heard that statement?
Or you're, you look at life
like it's a glass half full.
I'm like, it's not only half empty.
It's usually empty.
Like, I usually see the worst
in everything I walk in, and if
you want me to tell you what's
wrong with you, I'll tell you.
Like, I don't know why I
have that mindset of like, I.
I'm telling you it, I used
to be way worse than I am.
So if you know me and you've heard
negative from me, I've been worse before.
Um, and that's what marriage
will make you better.
Marriage will make you better because they
will call out your flaw flaws and you have
to correct them or not continue marriage.
And so I decided to continue marriage.
Okay.
So, um, just, just want, want you to
think through this with me and, and
those of you who've been able to be
here during the middle of this whole
series, uh, is anybody related with
every single week of the series?
Anybody like me, related with
the whole week of the series?
Like, I mean, there's, I,
I don't know what it is.
And just so you guys know, I don't
just change my lifestyle so that I
can relate with you when it comes
to all these mental struggles.
I feel like I am.
These mental struggles,
like this is my life.
It's like I've dealt with anxiety,
depression, worry, and negative thinking.
And here's the craziest part.
I feel like every single week that
I've taught on those things, it's
been worse that week than ever before.
Now, I think there's two reasons why.
Number one, I'm studying about it
a lot and I'm more of aware of it.
Number two, I think the
enemy is doing a great work.
I really do.
And so if you ever think about,
Hey, how can I pray for Ben?
The messages in which I preach each week,
a lot of times get so deep inside me.
I think that enemy begins to work his
way in to begin to convince me of things
that I shouldn't be convinced of, right?
In a very negative way or in a way
that would cause me not to speak
truth and to speak confidently.
Um, and so I realized in the midst
of this series, I'm like, do I really
struggle with these things all the time?
Or is it just because I'm walking
through this and I think it is
because I'm walking through this?
But, um, I wanna start
off with this question.
Does anybody in this room
ever talk to themselves?
Anybody?
You ever catch yourself talking to
yourself, but then realize you're
speaking out loud and there's
somebody next to you going, what?
And you're like, oh, that
was sensitive information.
I shouldn't have said that out loud.
Um, I would assume most of us talk to
ourselves, and we usually are doing this,
like, don't forget to pick up the kids
and I've gotta go drop off the laundry,
and man, I've gotta do all these things.
So we're talking to ourselves
consistently about those things.
But really what I'm asking is, do you
consistently talk to yourselves where you
begin to be a little bit self-defeating,
like, man, I'm just not good enough.
Uh, you know, I, I, I, I'm lazy.
I, I, I, I'm never, I'm
never gonna be a good dad.
I'm, I'm a horrible husband.
I, I'm, I'm, whatever it is.
Do you ever talk to yourself that way?
I catch myself doing that.
And when we think about negative
thinking, that's usually where it starts.
We tend to negatively start talking
about ourselves and we repeat it
over and over and over again and
it becomes this negative loop that
repeats over and over in our heads.
And if you've ever been here
pre-service, we had this loop
of announcements that roll.
And what ends up happening when you see
those announcements is it just becomes
this loop of announcements that you've
seen over and over and over again.
Um, and it really just
runs in our minds that way.
Um, and when we think about
this, we, we think about, okay,
what, what can we do about it?
How can we overcome some
of that negative thinking?
And I just wanna give you some examples
exactly what it looks like when we think
about our lives right in the morning.
Does anybody ever say this, I've got so
much to do today that I need to work hard
to get all those things accomplished.
Anybody have a lot of things to do in the
day, but do you ever get to the end of the
day and go, I didn't get anything done?
And then typically you're trying
to look back on your day and
you begin to blame yourself.
Because there was something you did.
Now here's the thing you may
have, but typically it puts
you in this negative light.
Well then you're probably this
person that, okay, you know, we
need to do better with our money.
We need to better with our money, and
you spend wrong, and all of a sudden
you're never gonna get right with money.
You're never gonna do things right.
Somebody does something wrong
to you and you go, I'm never
gonna trust that person again.
Right?
And it just goes on and on again.
And this is what I have learned.
I, I've actually, so I'm gonna bring
Brittany this, I got approval to do this.
Um, There's times where Britney will begin
to say, you know, I'm just not a good
mother, another good, not a good wife.
And I have literally stopped her,
looked in her face and said, stop
talking to my wife like that.
And she goes, what are you doing?
I'm like, no, I'm not allowing
you to speak to my wife like that.
And that kind of makes her laugh.
And then it realizes that sometimes we
need somebody to take up for ourselves.
Like, does that make sense?
Like you need somebody to take up for
you because we are so self-defeating.
I have people in this church that build
me up because I'm usually one that tears
myself down and I need people like that.
And I would even say,
let's go a step deeper.
Jesus is saying to my wife, don't
speak to my daughter like that.
See, I think when we think about
negative thinking, we, we have to
look a little bit deeper and realize
that we're destroying ourselves.
And we're distracting ourselves
from the beauty of who we are.
Yes, we're broken and infallible.
People that will make mistakes and not
hit the mark on sometimes, but man,
those negative thoughts, that loop that
keeps running, will destroy your lives
and distract you from what God has
given you, which is God's perfect peace.
So the question is, what
do you say to yourselves?
Only you'll know what you say to
yourselves, but Proverbs 4 23 says
this, and I don't have this up on the
screen, and I had to dive a little bit
deeper to kind of look at this verse.
So it's the good news
translation says it this way.
In Proverbs 4 23, and this
should be on your papers, it
says, be careful how you think.
Your life is shaped by your thoughts.
And then you see the quote
there from Pastor uh uh, Dr.
Paul David Tripp.
He says this, no one is more influential
in your life than you are because no
one talks to you more than you do.
You've heard me quote this from
Craig Rochelle, multiple times your
life is heading in the direction
of your strongest thoughts.
So if that's a true statement, if
we are our worst critics, right?
If what we think about and what we think
about ourselves is impacting, then that
means that we are allowing those negative
thoughts to be a stronghold in our life.
So that's why we're going to talk about
how we can overcome our negative thoughts.
I wanna pray for us and then
we're gonna continue on.
So, Lord Jesus, as we've kind of set the
stage, Lord, for what we're talking about
today, I know that many of us maybe are
drawing in to being able to relate with.
This negative thinking maybe about
ourselves or about those around us, or
about the things that we're involved in.
And so, Lord, I just pray that as we
are reflecting today, Lord, that we'll
walk outta here being able to learn
how to begin to overcome our negative
thinking, uh, only through your power,
through your Word and through your spirit,
will you be able to help us do that.
And Lord, I pray today that we take
one step to doing that so that we can
continue to experience your perfect peace.
And we pray this in your heaven name.
Amen.
So how many y'all agree that we
are living in a society that is
becoming more and more negative?
Anybody?
Um, and here's the reason why I, I ask
that question because I, and I want to
kind of prove this because I think we're
seeing it more and more in society.
And so what I would love to do
is get some feedback from you.
And so I'm gonna ask a question and then
you're just gonna have to respond to this.
So question, if you're on social
media and you see somebody post
something positive or something
negative, which one gets more traction?
Negative.
Okay.
Now let's just go dive
a little bit deeper.
If you're on, you know, a news
app is something that is posted
positive on that news app or tr
something tragic on that news app.
Which one's getting more traction?
Tragic.
Okay.
I wanna give you one further, and
really, this is just my personal example.
What do you think happened one day when
I was invited to preach at a church
and I was so anxious about doing it?
And I go up there and I preach,
and I had five people after the
service say, Hey, great message.
But I had one person
mention one small thing.
Do you think I dwelled on the five that
was positive or the one that was negative?
We all do that.
Typically, we all are.
Somehow it's in our lives,
we're somehow ingrained.
To focus on negative stories, negative
thinking, it, it is something inside
of us, and so when I say something
inside of us, it's our natural response.
Not our spiritual response, but
it's our natural response, right?
And it's amazing that we
understand how natural that is.
And so I wanna give you two statements
that we're gonna repeat over and over
again so that we grab hold of this.
But number one, your thoughts
have incredible power.
Your thoughts have incredible power.
Power negatively and positively, right?
But the good news is that you have
incredible power over your thoughts, and
you need to hear that today just because
your power, your thoughts are powerful,
that they may be negative, that you have
control over those powerful thoughts, and
we're gonna see how God directs us, right?
So I wanna read this to you.
If our lives are heading the direction
of our strongest thoughts, then by the
power of God, you can actually choose
what you think about and what you think
about will determine how you live.
I wanna read, uh, Romans chapter eight,
verse five and six, um, to kind of even
walk through this a little bit more.
So we're gonna start there.
Romans chapter eight, verse five
and six, and this is what it says.
It says, for those who live according
to the flesh, have their minds
set on the things of the flesh.
But those who live according to
the spirit have their minds set
on the things of the spirit.
Now, the mindset of this flesh
is death, but the mindset of
the spirit is life and peace.
I want to make sure
that we understand here.
When he uses the word flesh,
he's not talking about our skin.
I'm just, the reason why I say that is
because for me as a new believer, when
I'm reading these things, I'm like,
I don't have my mind set on my flesh.
I mean, like, it's kind of ugly, but
like that's not, I mean, I'm serious.
Those are the things
that go through my mind.
So what does it mean?
Having the mindset of the flesh, what does
it mean to have the mindset of the flesh?
This is where we look at and we
say, okay, the mindset of the flesh
is really talking about our sinful
desires and our sinful nature.
So basically, this is what Paul's saying.
Those who live according to their
sinful nature, they had their mindset
on their natural desires, their
sinful, na natural desires, right?
So selfish living creates
self selfish thinking.
But then we see in verse six, but
the good news is those who live
according to the spirit have their
mind set on spiritual desires, right?
Life and peace.
So selfless living, selfless thinking.
So what does this mean to us?
If our minds are controlled by
our flesh, the result is death.
Darkness and destruction.
And if our minds are controlled by the
spirit, it leads to life and peace.
Why do we need to hear this?
When we allow that negative loop about
ourselves, about our circumstances, about
those around us, we are feeding death.
And I don't know about this, but as
anybody, no, I, here's the thing.
I know some of y'all want
to get to heaven quickly.
I, I would love to see Jesus as well.
Okay, so some of y'all are gonna
answer this a little bit differently,
but I think death is kind of scary.
I mean, I don't like losing people.
I, I really don't.
So to me, death is scary.
Darkness is scary.
Cuz even as an adult, there's
sometimes I think there's a scary
monster in the dark, being honest.
That's why I quickly turn on the lights.
So death and darkness is not
where I want to be and I don't
think it's where you wanna be.
But when we negatively think
about things and when we're
constantly tearing ourselves
down, all we're doing is bringing
darkness, not peace into our lives.
But when we lean into the spirit,
right, and we place our minds on the
spirit, then we receive life and peace.
Life and peace.
Those are two things that I want.
You guys want life and peace.
Amen.
So those are things that we desire.
We want, and I, again, I, I would guess
at this point in the message, all of
your price in there going, we want that.
But here's the problem.
Why does darkness always find me?
And we're gonna go maybe
trolls over here, right?
Hello, darkness.
You're my friend.
Maybe that's where you love hanging out.
Maybe you don't know
how to get out of that.
And so today we wanna address that, right?
But here's the thing.
Darkness and destruction
control us at times.
And the spirit leaves to life and peace.
And so I want us to say this, and
if we find ourselves always being
negative, focused on all of these things
that drag us down and bring us into
darkness and always feel encouraged.
We know there's a way out.
By putting our minds on Jesus.
So we're gonna talk about three
things today, and we're gonna
continue to dive into these things.
And at the end, we're gonna really
land, hopefully home to help
each one of us and what we can
do, and we can learn from David.
And again, David was a
man after God's own heart.
He made some mistakes.
He dealt with darkness, but
he did something that I hope
will challenge you today.
So we're gonna address three
things today and discuss them.
One, why is negativity not only
hurting you, but your family, your
relationships, and your marriage?
And the direction of your life.
Number two, we'll identify some
specific areas of negativity.
So again, those who may say, I'm
not negative today, you might dig a
little deeper and find that you are.
And then number three, we're gonna discuss
by the power of God's word through the
spirit of God, how we can change from
death, right negativity into life and find
the perfect peace that God has for us.
So let's start with the first one.
Why is negativity so toxic?
Again, I already kind of bringed
up some of those things, right?
The idea behind negativity always
seems to be the things that people run
after click on and uh, focus on, right?
But what we begin to realize is
that as we include all these things
into our life, think about this.
Who are you placing yourself around?
What are you looking at on social media?
What are you, what news
app are you following?
And this is not a Republican
or Democrat thing.
What are you allowing negatively
into your life that is influencing
you to become negative?
Because it's not usually just one thing.
It's not just yourself
negatively defeating you.
It's multiple things that you're
allowing to influence your life.
And when we allow those things to be
consistent in our lives, Then they
begin to now lead and direct our lives.
You've heard me talk about a
couple weeks ago, this idea
behind these neuro pathways.
The more we think on a thought,
the more likely that we're
able to think on that thought.
Easier and more often
and more often, right?
And so what we realize is when we
begin to allow these negative things
into our lives, we create these neuro
pathways, negative neuro pathways, and
they become negative habits, right?
Um, and so what I would say
with this is you need people
like my wife that will hear me.
Come home from the gym and I'll
communicate like, this was bad.
And man, this was, this was bad here.
And all of a sudden she stops
me and here's what she says.
And you can't say anything
negative again until you say three
things positive about your day.
And the reason why is we get
so consumed by the negative.
We forget all the good things that
happened, all the good things.
I'll give you guys a great example.
Recently I've been sharing with
you about our car troubles.
You know what, I got to talking to
a family member before, you know,
and our, my, me and Brittany's
now, were almost been together.
So from dating and marriage 20
years, you know, we've had very
little car issues in 20 years.
Very little.
I mean a few here or there,
but this is the first major car
issue in 20 years perspective.
Perspective the other day.
Everything's falling apart.
The world's crazy.
We're not gonna make, I mean,
you guys know how that is, right?
If I only focus on the negative,
what we're going through
is the worst thing ever.
But 20 years, this is pretty good.
Cuz I've talked to a couple
people that they said, yeah, we've
lost six cars in the last five.
Okay.
Perspective is great.
So when we think about these negative
thoughts, we've got to stop, pull
back, have people in our lives.
That remind us of the good that is
going on or the, the situation's
not as bad as we think, right?
And so when we think about this, right,
our mind is controlled by the flesh.
It's death, it's defeating, it's
out to still kill and destroy.
But we have to remember that our
thoughts, again, have incredible
power over the direction of our life,
either negatively or positively.
So let's talk about how we identify.
The negative areas and then
we're gonna quickly move on.
I wanna make sure that we have
plenty of time to get through this.
So what areas of negativity
are you dealing with?
Um, I would say this be we are all prone
to these areas at some point in our life.
Um, and so I'm gonna
go through four of 'em.
They are on your sheet
there, you can look at them.
The first one is cynicism.
So what is cynicism?
It's a big word.
I could hardly even say
it earlier this week.
So just so you know that.
So cynicism is general distrust
for people and their motives.
Uh, basically in this idea,
you can't trust people.
Everyone's out to get you.
There're there to take advantage of you.
If you wanna know that example,
it's like car salesman.
Oh, okay.
Um, so anyways, car salesman.
Uh, so most of us don't trust them.
If you're a car salesman, I'm sorry.
Most of us don't trust them
because they're always liars.
That's what we think.
And every car salesman's gonna treat
you that way, but it goes further than
that when you begin to think about.
Every guy is this way and
every girl is this way.
And if you've ever done anything,
you're just always gonna think
that people are out to get you.
They're always distrustful.
And here's the craziest part, just
so you know, those of you may who
may relate with this, experts say
that the reason why that you have
this, that typically it's generally a
reflection of how you view yourself.
That's tough.
So when you distrust oth others,
it often reveals that you don't
always trust your own motives.
And again, that's something
we could dive into deeper.
We're not gonna dive into deeper today.
So the next one is negative
filtering, just seeing what's wrong.
Uh, and that's me, right?
Finding the worst possible thing to point
out in a situation overlooking what's
good, assuming the worst possible outcome.
Great example, if your child's
running late from going out with
their friends, you assume they're
in a car wreck and they've died.
Man, I love Laura's over here.
She's just, she's gonna point
everybody in the room if you wanna
know who's got what she's gonna point.
Okay.
I love it.
Thanks for helping everybody.
They needed, this is great.
I love the participation.
Um, I, I would say this, you're
also going to be the one that, uh,
and, and this is meme, uh, until
I became a part of this church.
When you text a friend and
they don't text for two hours,
you think they're mad at you.
Every guy in this room is that, So
I've learned you guys don't hate me.
You're just busy.
Um, but that's you.
If you're, you text and your friend
doesn't text back quick enough,
you're like, they, they hate me.
They're mad at me.
Right.
I love how everybody's laughing, right?
This is another one that
you may relate with.
You go to a restaurant and you always find
something negative about that restaurant,
and usually it's probably to justify
why you don't give them a good tip.
Hmm.
That's a tough one.
Uh, here's one that, those of you who've
been a part of a difficult church or
a bad church, Every church you go to,
you always find what's wrong with it
so you don't have to go to it again.
I mean, some of y'all that may be true.
You come and you only see the
negative in the church, and then
that's why you don't go to church.
I, and here's the thing, guys, your we,
we talked about this a couple weeks ago.
Your emotions and all of
these situations are valid.
Obviously you're going through
them and processing through them,
but where you're sitting with
them is not where we need to stay.
It's not beneficial.
When we think about these things,
let's keep going on absolute thinking.
All or nothing, black or white, right?
This is where we say, again,
kind of we're more specific.
If a man hurt me, then
all men are gonna hurt me.
If a woman lies, all women are gonna lie.
Here's a tough one.
If a Republican or Democrat does
something wrong, all of them are bad.
Okay?
I'm not, that's as much
political as I'm gonna get today.
Okay?
Um, and again, goes down the line.
If the, if a church hurts you,
all churches are gonna hurt you.
This is where we get cancel culture.
Right.
Somebody wrongs me, I'm writing 'em off
and I'll never give them another chance.
And most likely I'll never
give somebody else that looks,
acts, smells like that person.
It's crazy.
But that's true.
Um, let's just continue on.
Uh, blaming.
This isn't another one.
Blaming.
This is where you believe
that you're always the victim.
You're always the victim.
You've never done anything wrong.
It's just your circumstances.
It's somebody else's fault, um,
because they did it, because
you don't have control over it.
You're just a victim of your
life, of your circumstances, and
the world is stacked against you.
So we quickly walk through
these four different ones.
And again, these are from professionals
that they've kind of narrowed
these down to these four categories
where we're negative in our lives.
So here's the question, right?
If we find ourselves constantly jealous or
critical or disconnected, or assuming the
worst or hard on other people, or hard on
yourself, the question is, can you change?
I mean, if that's just who you are, I,
I, I've heard somebody say this before,
it's like, this is just who I am.
But does that mean.
That that's okay to be who you
are if you are always negative.
And, and so let me just by
raise the hands, who loves
being around a negative person.
Okay, there we go.
I know it's coming.
I was waiting on it cuz somebody's been
like, Hey, I actually kinda like it.
Yeah, there we go.
It happened.
Um, okay.
Yourself?
You like yourself?
Yeah.
See that that is actually
a true statement.
Those of us who are negative
do like being around ourselves.
Right?
Um, but the question is,
can we change our mindset?
And this is where I want to, to,
to dive a little bit more into the
word, but I also want to kind of give
you something that I think's always
really cool when we begin to think
about these studies that are done.
So there was a study done.
And it was a TED Talk that was
shared with this, and I, I love this.
They brought these groups of people
together and they talked to them
about this figurative, um, basically
procedure that they could do.
And they brought the two groups.
They separated them, they went into
one group, and this is what they said.
They said, Hey, we got this new procedure.
If you were to have this procedure,
if it was, if you needed it and it was
a 70% success rate, would you do it?
And they're like, absolutely.
100%.
So they went to the other group,
they walked in, they said, okay,
we got this new procedure, but
it's a 30% chance of failure.
And the majority of them
said, no, we wouldn't do it.
Okay, now then what?
They said, let's, let's
switch these groups.
Well, let's, let's go back to 'em and
say, Hey, the one that said 70%, Hey, I
just wanna remind you, yes, it's still
70% success, but we wanna remind you that
there's a 30% chance that, that you won't
survive if you were to do this procedure.
And they went.
Oh really?
And they begin to change their minds,
but they went back to the 30%, the
one that they said, Hey, 30% bad.
That's the only thing they said 30% bad.
And most of them said they
wouldn't do the procedure.
Hey, what if we change
that statistic over?
And we said, and reminded you that it's
not only 30% bad, but it's also 70% good.
Most of them still stayed with the
30% saying, you know, I still don't
believe that the surgery is good.
And what you're wondering
is, what do you mean?
Isn't the same thing.
Well, one, I think there's a
math problem here most people
probably aren't correlating.
When they walk into a room and
somebody says 70% good, they're
not correlating the 30% bad.
What I'm saying is, what
people hear matters.
What we hear matters.
They walked in that room and
the only words they said was,
this surgery is 70% successful.
They didn't say anything about the 30%.
They didn't bring that up.
They didn't talk about it.
They didn't focus on it.
All they focused on was the good.
The other group, the only thing
they focused on was the negative.
The reason why they made the decisions
was because of the negative thinking and
the negative perception that was brought,
and it was hard for them to change.
So again, you say, well then is it gonna
be easy to change our negative thinking?
No.
But with God, all things are possible
because a lot of times we get in these
circumstances and we get in these
situations with this negative thinking
or whatever mental struggle we're dealing
with, and we're like, but it's hard if
you've ever dealt with an addiction.
And I don't know if you have,
if you've ever dealt with an
addiction from drugs, to alcohol,
to pornography, to you name it.
If you've ever dealt
with it, it's never easy.
Why?
Because that addiction was something
that you did over and over and over and
over, and over and over again, and it
became a habit or negative thinking.
What did I say is a habit?
And it's something that we've done
over and over and it becomes to say
what I said earlier, it is who we are.
That's just who I am.
Remember me saying this
a couple weeks ago?
I said, Hey, I used to call myself a
realist and I realized that a realist
is somebody that actually sees reality
in everything good and bad For me.
I was just a negatives.
I just always saw the bad and
everything, and I had to come
to that conclusion for myself.
I'm not a realist.
I just like being negative.
I like seeing that everything half
empty and I had to begin to change that.
How's it going?
It's going okay, I'm learning.
But what I realized is
it was affecting me.
It was affecting me.
It's hard.
What all we do is see the
negative and everything.
It becomes destructive.
So God gives us a great
example in his word.
So let's look at this story here.
We're gonna be in First Samuel.
Again, it should be on your sheets,
but first Samuel chapter 30.
It's gonna be up on the screen as well.
And we're gonna read
verses three through six.
Highlighting mostly three, four, and six.
And this is the story of David.
So David, again, we know David
is, uh, king after God's own
heart and he was appointed by God.
He, David's the one that destroyed,
you know, the, the giant.
And you know, he's this awesome guy.
And yes, he has some things, if you know
his story, he has kind of a checkered
pass, but he's out there fighting for
the Lord and they come back to camp and
there's something that happens when they
come back to camp, him and his warriors.
So let's look at this together.
Hey, I might want to turn there first.
That's kind of funny.
All right.
This is what it says,
verse three through six.
It says, when David and his men arrived
at the town, they found it burned.
This is when they came home.
Their wives, their sons, and their
daughters had been kidnapped.
David and the troops with him wept loudly
until they had no strength left to weep.
David's two wives.
I don't know how to say 'em.
Um, Ana Hyam and Jere and Abigail,
the widow of Naval, the Carmelite
has been kidnapped and David was an
extremely difficult position because
the troops talked about stoning him for,
they were all very bitter over their
loss of their sons, their daughters.
But David found strength
in the Lord his God.
So let me just kind of set the stage here.
Think about this.
David is representing God to these
troops and something bad happened
in their life and they had reason
to be negative because their family
had been taken away from them.
And at this moment, David's
not only worried about his own
family, he's worried about dying.
So he's obviously in a
very stressful situation.
And he had the ability to do this.
He could sit there and continue to
just dwell on what had happened, what
negatively had happened, what negatively,
and this is so key, what negatively
thing that God allowed to happen?
Don't miss that part cuz some
of your negative thinking,
you wanna blame God for.
Here's the truth, maybe God did allow
something to happen for you to get to that
point where the situation, you could think
negative, but David chose to do something
else rather than be being negative.
He chose to find his
strength in the Lord his God.
And we see it as you look a little bit
deeper there in the Kjv version, which is,
you know, the only real version for those
of you that love the K JV in verse six,
this is really the way it's translated.
But David encouraged himself in the Lord.
So some of you are so negative of
yourself and those around you that you
need to encourage yourself in the Lord.
I'm gonna say that to myself, Ben,
sometimes, oh, wait, I, I don't
have a mirror, but sometimes I am
so negative about situations, about
my life, about myself, that I need
to encourage myself from the Lord.
Now, here's the interesting thing.
It doesn't go on and explain how David
encouraged himself from the Lord.
That was all it really said.
David encouraged himself from the
Lord and he began to seek the Lord.
And there's more in this text where
he begins to seek the Lord and ask
the prophet, what should he do?
And they go back.
Here's the cool part.
They go out and they begin
to catch up with this group.
They get all our family back, and
they're all healthy and safe and fine.
I think about this situation.
God didn't leave for a moment when
these negative thoughts came in.
God has always been present.
He was present in their situation.
He's present in whatever your
negative at, he's present.
And David recognized that and he began
to encourage himself in the Lord.
So yet we don't fully
know what David said.
Here's the cool part, and you're
gonna see these verses and I
wanna read these verses with you.
Here's the cool part where we see some
of the verses that maybe David would've
reminded himself of and encouraged
himself on the Lord that day, because
David wrote some of these psalms before.
So we'll see these here.
Psalm 1 0 3, 1 through five.
Again, all these are on the sheet.
I didn't have them put them on the
screen cuz I know you had the sheet.
It says this, praise the Lord
my soul, all my inmost beam.
Praise his holy name.
Praise the Lord my soul.
And forget not his benefits.
Who forgives all your sins
and heals all your diseases.
Who redeems your life from the pit and
crowns you with love and compassion.
Who satisfies your desires with
good things, with good things.
So maybe this is one of the
Psalms that David remembered.
And then if we go on, we're
gonna see three different psalms,
and there's a reason why that
they all sound very similar.
So 1 0 3 8 1 45 8 and 86
15, this is what they say.
It says, the Lord is
compassionate and gracious, slow
to anger, abounding and love.
And then he says, but you Lord
are compassionate and gracious
God, slow to anger and abounding
and love and faithfulness.
And the other one is, the Lord
is gracious and compassionate,
slow to anger and rich and love.
Why do you think that David wrote
in three different Psalms, these
same basic words, because he was
meditating on the word of God.
God had given him these words.
So what he did is he encouraged
himself from the Lord.
He didn't allow all the
things going on around him to
consume his negative thinking.
No, it wasn't beneficial to him.
He knew all it would
do was give him death.
Death, and he didn't want death.
He wanted life and peace,
so he encouraged himself in.
The Lord and I love that.
And he says, down here in Romans,
Romans 1513 says this, and this
is just an encouragement for us.
May the God of hope fill you with
all joy and peace as you trust in
him, so that you may overflow with
hope by the power of the Holy Spirit.
It's a reminder of where we get our
hope and our peace from, which is Jesus.
Which is Jesus.
So when we think about David's
situation, when we think about all
the reasons why we're negative,
I think we have to remember this.
Our perspective is limited.
There's, there's a challenge in my
heart as a leader whenever we're,
I'm, I'm making decisions as a
church, we're making decisions
is, I know this, my perspective's
limited in this sit situation.
So our situation with, with thinking
negatively, Is very limited, but
God's perspective is not limited.
He sees everything going on.
He knows what's going on, and
he knows exactly what we need.
So as David reminded us that we need to
remember and be encouraged in the Lord,
I want to challenge you today that you
need to be encouraged in the L Lord.
And again, if you look at that
Psalm 1 0 3, David says, don't
forget his benefits in the midst of.
The difficulty, just like I talked
earlier about my car, if I only look
at the situation, it's only negative.
But if I look past the situation
into God, God has provided a
lot more than that situation.
And I give that practical example
for you because I don't want you
to just think, oh, well that's
just, you know, good thinking.
No, it's practical thinking.
Some of you came in here negative.
Here's, here's the truth, I guarantee
it In a church our size, somebody
came in here and there was something
between the coffee, the music that
you didn't like, that you were
already thinking negative about.
Don't, don't, don't lie to me.
You may be sitting there right now.
This message is going too long.
I'm already in the red.
Okay?
Yeah.
I'm calling you out.
Wanna know something, truth truthful.
I woke up this morning in the first
five minutes of studying my message.
I was negative, like I was a flat
out negative, and all of a sudden
it just like stopped in my tracks
and I went, what am I doing?
I'm preaching on this.
And I just thought like all these
negative thoughts about myself.
And I had to remind myself and encourage
myself and the Lord, even me on a Sunday
morning of preaching this message.
I wrestle this.
So this is not something we do once.
This is something we do every day.
So I want to give you a great, cool word.
It's called ruminate.
You've heard me maybe
mention this word before.
Ruminate.
Does anybody know what ruminating
is or know what Orville would?
Orville's gonna be the one.
Okay, here.
Good.
So let me kind of fill you in.
So ruminating, and I
want you to imagine this.
This is gonna really make you exciting.
Imagine a cow.
Eating some grass and chewing on it and
swallowing it, got a lot of nutrients
on it, and then they kinda like spit it
back up and they chew on it again because
they wanna get more nutrients on it.
So they're ruminating on this,
swallowing it again, and then they
spit it back up and they ruminate
again on it because they're wanting
the most nutrients out of it now.
Now that's disgusting.
So I don't want you throwing up.
You know God's word all day just
to remind yourself not to, but
this is just a mental image.
Is this idea, is it something that
we keep in us that we constantly
think on and we remind ourselves?
Son, whenever negative situations
come in, when you wanna be negative
at work, you wanna be negative at
your home, you wanna think negatively
as somebody else or yourself.
Stop and remember, I gotta ruminate.
This sounds really bad, bad.
I need to encourage myself in the Lord.
Where do we encourage
yourself in the Lord?
David went to the word.
What do we do?
We go to the word of God.
I would even say this.
Go to a friend.
It's okay to shoot a text and
say, I need to be encouraged.
I'm struggling today.
Your friends are your
greatest resource sometimes of
encouragement, cuz you know what?
If you have the right friends, they're
gonna encourage you in the Lord.
They're gonna encourage you in the Lord.
So how do we overcome our negative
thoughts by taking our thoughts
captive and acting more like a cow.
Take that home with you.
Maybe that'll stick for you.
Maybe it won't.
Okay.
So as we move into imitation, cuz I want
to to take time, I want you to take time.
I want you to be into thank today.
What have I been very
negative about lately?
Has it been myself?
I want you to begin in
think through this, right?
This is the time where you begin to start
thinking through if my thoughts have
incredible power of the direction of my
life, if they do, which I believe they
do, but you have incredible power over
your thoughts because God is with you.
Then today you can lay down those
negative thoughts, those negative things
that you've been worrying about as
assert yourself or about the church,
or about your family, or about your
job, and you can begin to just say,
okay, Lord, I'm ready to do battle.
And what that means is that
you're going to begin to hand
that over to the Lord, right?
If your life has been full of negativity,
today is the day to deal with it.
Don't let it drag you down
if you're tired of it.
I, I'll tell you this.
Being negative is exhausting,
and being around negative
people is even more exhausting.
And when you're the same person,
it's even really more exhausting.
Okay.
Um, and so maybe that's you today, and
if it's not you, then um, maybe it's
somebody else that you need to encourage.
But as we take time today,
there's a couple of things
that I wanna encourage you in.
Uh, the first thing I just wanna do, I
want us to just take some time to pray.
Um, And then I want to kind of
lead you through what you can
be praying to the Lord about.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus, your word is truth.
And we know, Lord, that
your word is powerful.
And I just pray that as we now begin
to process where we are in, in our
lives, Lord, what areas maybe we're
being negative in, Lord, maybe it's
ourselves or our friends, or our
family, or our job, or whatever it is.
Lord, I pray that you begin to open
our hearts and minds today to what we
need to lay down at your feet today.
So as we continue to pray, I really
just want you right there at your seat.
I just want you to bow your head.
I want you to begin to just
think, okay, Lord, I'm gonna
begin to just think through what
areas of my life, what are they?
And I want you to just begin to
imagine them, and I want you to
begin to lay them before the Lord
and say, Lord, here they are.
I'm tired of being negative with
my family and our circumstances.
I'm, I'm tired of being
negative towards myself.
I, I'm tired of being negative
about my job or about the church,
or about my spouse or my children.
Just lay that down in his feet.
And here's the great and amazing
part that as you are doing that the
Lord has been there the whole time.
And you know what he's gonna do?
He's gonna take that whatever you
lay down at his feet, he's gonna
take that and he is gonna remove it.
And so I just want you to imagine as
you're laying that down, I want you to
just imagine that Jesus is taking that
and he's removing it from your life,
and what I want you to do is something
that I think is so important.
We see this all throughout his word.
I want you to begin to praise and
faith maybe before that, all of those
things that you are negative about.
I want you to begin to praise in
faith that the Lord has removed
them and that you will begin.
Encouraging yourself in the Lord.
So just take some time to praise
God and to take some time to thank
him that his benefits are amazing.
Thank him that he is an encourager.
Begin to just thank him that he has
one that takes our burdens from us
and removes them from our lives.
I want you to just thank them for
dying in your place on the cross.
The last thing I want you to think through
is you're sitting there in your seats.
I want you just there.
There could be somebody in this room
that doesn't know Jesus, and so when
you're saying cast all your cares
on him, you, you don't know what
that means and what that looks like.
And I just wanna challenge you today
as you're continuing to pray, as if
you need to give your life to Jesus
that today is the day of salvation.
To give your life to him, to repent of
your sins and say, I need you, Jesus.
And said that you can do that right where
you sit and the quietness of your prayer.
Just say, I need Jesus.
Forgive me of my sins.
I trust in you.
You can say that right now.
You can say, I surrender my life to you.
You can admit your need for his mercy
and grace in your life, forgiveness.
And if you've prayed that prayer and
if you've surrendered that to him
today, then you have given your life
to him and we celebrate with you.
So Lord Jesus, we just pray today, Lord,
as we stand in worship here in a minute.
Lord, I pray that we
worship with less burden.
We, we get rid of all of our negative
thinking, not because, Lord, you know,
it's something that makes us right with
you in the fact that it, you know, you
don't love us before, Lord, you love
us no matter what we're going through.
But Lord, I know that what you're
saying is that negativity and our
lives is not beneficial for us, Lord.
So I pray that we have casted our cares
on you, our negativities, and everything
that we're dealing with onto your feet.
And now, Lord, I pray that
you have removed all that.
And then we can now praise freely
because of what you've done for
us on the cross and what you've
done for us in this moment.
But Lord Jesus, I pray that if there's
someone in this room that may be during
that time of, of praying, Lord, that
they gave their lives to you, Lord, I
pray that at the end of this service
that they come and find me and they
say, Hey, I've given my life to Jesus.
I've casted my cares upon
him and will celebrate Lord.
I pray that you give them
the faith to do that.
So Lord, be with us this week as we.
Begin to remember you as we begin
to pursue you and as we begin to
overcome our negative thinking, and
we pray this in your heavenly name.
Amen.
All right, let's stand and let's worship.